Adding TF bootstrap for Gitlab and corresponding CICD templates (#409)
microsoft/cobalt: infra/templates/gitlab-bootstrap-iac-cicd/README.md

# Bootstrap for Terraform deployments through Gitlab into Azure

> This repository is intended to simplify setting up CICD required for the infrastructure CICD on the Gitlab platform. It aims to do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository is intended to simplify setting up the Azure components that are needed for the Gitlab platform to perform Azure infrastructure CICD automation. It aims to do the following:
```
Relationship between Azure and Gitlab was not immediately understood by me.

Author: I think the right documentation is a mix of what you have here and some other context that I did not include. I'll re-phrase, thanks for calling this out!

Author: @TechnicallyWilliams what do you think about the latest phrasing?

Reviewer: wow. Super clear. Love it.

# Bootstrap for Terraform deployments through Gitlab into Azure

This directory contains [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) templates that can bootstrap Azure and Gitlab resources in a way that enables running robust CICD of [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) templates using [Gitlab CICD](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/). After applying this template, automated CI of terraform deployments should **just work**.

> **Note**: This template is intended to be used alongside the CICD pipeline for infrastructure using Gitlab. More information can be found [here](../../../devops/providers/gitlab/templates/README.md)

At a high level, this template aims to:

* Deploy Azure Dependencies required for automated CICD of Terraform deployments
* Configure variables in GitLab required for automated CICD of Terraform deployments
* Configure dependencies for each a multistage (`dev`, `integration`, `prod`, etc...) Terraform deployment

> **Note**: This template only sets up the **dependencies** needed to do a production ready infrastructure deployment, such as backend state, deployment credentials, Azure Contianer Reigstry and Gitlab variables.

> There are manythings deployed by this template, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many things deployed by this template, including:
```

* Backend state storage account
* Backend state containers for this deployment
* ACR for storing docker images
* GitLab variables needed for all deployments
* For each deployment environment
  * Backend state container
  * Service principal used for deployments to that environment
  * Resource group
  * Role based security

## Identities/Credentials Configured

This template will generate some credentials, which are enumarated blow:

| Description | Reason | Notes |
| ---         | ---    | ---   |
| ACR Push/Pull | Needed by the pipeline that builds the base image used by all of the infrastructure CICD in GitLab | N/A |
| Environment Deploy | Needed by each environment to execute a deployment of resources into Azure | One generated for each environment |

## Usage

There are a few use cases for the code in this repository. The sections below outline the usage for each of those cases

### First Time Setup

Among the many resources provisioned by this template is the [Backend Configuration](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/index.html) that hosts the [Terraform State](https://www.terraform.io/docs/state/index.html) for this template, as well as the state for each deployment.

> Because of this, we'll cannot have the backend state configured for the initial deployment of this template. These steps will take you through the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, we cannot have the backend state configured for the initial deployment of this template. These steps will take you through the following:
```

* Initial deployment of this template
* Enable the backend state for this deployment

#### Requirements

* `terraform` will need to be installed. Version `v0.12.28` or newer is recommended
* A shell environment, preferrably bash
* A Gitlab personall access token. Instructions for generating one can be found [here](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html). The token will need the `api` permission.
* An Azure subscription

#### Deployment Steps

**Disable backend state**

For the first deployment, the contents of `backend.tf` will need to be commented out. Don't worry -- we'll uncomment this later.

**Configure your environment**
```bash
# Required to configure variables in GitLab
export GITLAB_TOKEN="..."

# Required to scope variables to the GitLab group
export TF_VAR_group_path="..."

# Required to scope variables to the GitLab project that houses Terraform. This

> # should be in the form of $GROUP/$PROJECT_NAMEexport TF_VAR_gitlab_terraform_project_path="..."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# should be in the form of $GROUP/$PROJECT_NAME
export TF_VAR_gitlab_terraform_project_path="..."
```

```bash
export ARM_ACCESS_KEY=$(terraform output backend-state-account-key)
export ARM_ACCOUNT_NAME=$(terraform output backend-state-account-name)
export ARM_CONTAINER_NAME=$(terraform output backend-state-bootstrap-container-name)

# Initialize the deployment with the backend
terraform init -backend-config "storage_account_name=${ARM_ACCOUNT_NAME}" -backend-config "container_name=${ARM_CONTAINER_NAME}"
```

You should see something along the lines of the following, to which you want to answer `yes`:

```bash
Do you want to copy existing state to the new backend?
```

If things work, you will see the following message and the state file should end up in Azure:

```bash
Successfully configured the backend "azurerm"! Terraform will automatically
use this backend unless the backend configuration changes.
```

### Deploying the Infrastructure

Now that Azure and GitLab have been configured to support the Terraform deployment, you will need to do the following to actually deploy the environment.

**Trigger IAC Pipeline**

You are now ready to kick off a deployment of the IAC pipeline! You can do this through the GitLab UI.

### Rotate Service Principal Passwords

> If the need arrises to rotate the credentials for any of the generated service principals, the following command can be used to quickly rotate the credentials and also update all configuration in GitLab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the need arises to rotate the credentials for any of the generated service principals, the following command can be used to quickly rotate the credentials and also update all configuration in GitLab:
```

```bash
# configure environment (.envrc.template)

az login
az account set --subscription "<your subscription ID>"

terraform init -backend-config "storage_account_name=${ARM_ACCOUNT_NAME}" -backend-config "container_name=${ARM_CONTAINER_NAME}"

# `taint` all passwords - this triggers Terraform to regenerate these and update all dependent configuration
terraform state list | grep random_password | xargs -L 1 terraform taint
terraform plan

# Note: this command might fail due to the rapid create/delete on Azure resources. If it fails, re-running it
#       should solve the issue
terraform apply
```

Done!

### Adding a new environment

> Now that Azure and GitLab have been configured to deploy the `TEK` Server through Terraform, you can easily configure Azure and GitLab to support new stages by using the `environment` module.

Reviewer: Any links to explain "`TEK`" for the curious readers?

Author: Oops... I need to remove this. It is project-specific language that I can remove.

Author: Removed.

> > **Note**: This will only set up Auzre and GitLab to support a new environment. The environment will need to be deployed using the infrastructure deployments project (not covered here).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: This will only set up Azure and GitLab to support a new environment. The environment will need to be deployed using the infrastructure deployments project (not covered here).
```
